# python-api-challenge

<h2>WeatherPy</h2>
<p>I began by researching and installing the CitiPy module mentioned in the instructions. It became clear that I needed to generate a series of lat/long pairs, then use CitiPy to identify the closest city to each pair. From there, I would run my list of cities through OpenWeather to see if there is weather data for them to conduct the remaining analysis.</p>
<p>For the lat/long pairs, I first researched generating random numbers and found the random.sample method. This allowed me to set an upper/lower boundary to a range and specify how many numbers to randomly select. I did this for the latitude range (-90 to 90) and the longitude range (-180 to 180). I created a list for latitude and for longitude then used zip to combine them to pairs that I could call into my loop. For my testing I used a sample size of 25 - large enough to verify that things were working but small enough to limit my calls to the API. I generated my test list of cities, found the data, and set up all th required scatter plots and regressions.</p>

<p>When I had everything working and went back to run script with a larger set of lat/longs, I found that my random method did not work since I needed more lats/longs that the random.sample method allows (can only request up to the length of the range provided). I found a method on geeksforgeeks.org that set up a loop and some basic parameters to generate a list of random numbers. I set up my function (Rand) and then called that twice, once for latitude and once for longitude. I found that I needed to get 1500 lat/long pairs in order to find enough cities to match up with the weather data and be over the 500 city requirement.</p>

<p>Once I had the cities and the weather data (including my csv output), I ran through the rest of my script to generate the plots and do the analysis. All pngs are in the images directory and the csv is in the same directory as WeatherPy.ipynb</p>

<h2>VacationPy</h2>
<p>VacationPy came together quickly using examples from class. I first pulled in my csv that I generated in WeatherPy and loaded it into a dataframe. I then configured the humidity heatmap, tweaking a few settings to make it look nicer. I saved that image to the results folder.</p>
<p>For the second part I started by creating a new dataframe that filtered the results down to what I would consider to be ideal weather conditions for a vacation. I then added a blank column for "Hotel Name" that would be populated by my places query.</p>
<p>I needed to play around with my query for a bit - initially I kept getting no results. I eventually realized it was because I was trying to pull the lat/longs as a pair (the way I did for CitiPy) but the Google query wanted them seperate. Once I figured that out I was able to feed it in and get the results I needed. I found hotels for all but one of the 'ideal' vacation weather cities.</p>
<p>For the final plot, I set it up intially and ran it using 'locations' instead of 'hotel_locations'. That meant it put a marker on all 500+ locations I plotted on the humidity heat map. Once I realized that and made the correction I was able to generate the final result, saved as hotel_map in the results folder of VacationPy.</p>